class_exercises/ruby/3-exceptions/sections/2-cpp.md, before:

C++
===

Background
----------

Mechanisms for exception handling were added to C++ in 1990. Exceptions
themselves are user- or library- defined -- the language itself does not provide
any actual exceptions, just means of handling them.

Catching Exceptions
-------------------

C++ exceptions follow the form:

```cpp
try {
    // code that may raise an exception
} catch (/* exception parameter */) {
    // handler code
} catch (/* exception parameter */) {
    // handler code
}
// ...
```

`catch` is the name of all *handlers* in C++ -- it is an overloaded name, so the
*exception parameter* of each must be unique. You do not need to specify a
variable name to store the value of the parameter, you can simply specify the
type -- e.g. `catch(int)`, as opposed to `catch(int i)`. A parameter variable is
often useful, though, as it transfers information to the handling code. The
parameter may also simply be an ellipses: `catch(...)`, which is an exception
catch-all (compare to Java).

After a handler completes its execution, control flows to the first statement
after the `try`/`catch` block that handled the exception.

Throwing Exceptions
-------------------

Exceptions are explicitly raised by a `throw` statement:

```cpp
throw expression;
```

where `expression` may be any type (compare to Java).

A `throw` without an argument can only appear in a handler -- this simply
re-raises the exception, which should be handled elsewhere.

```cpp
try {
    // code that may raise an exception
} catch (string s) {
    // handler for string exceptions
} catch (...) {
    // throw all other exceptions
    throw;
}
```

Concrete Example
----------------

```cpp
int num;
char ch;
double dNum;

try {
    std::cout << "Enter int from 1 - 100: ";
    std::cin >> num;
    if (num < 1 || num > 100) {
        throw num;
    }

    std::cout << "Enter 'A' or 'B' : ";
    std::cin >> ch;
    if (ch != 'A' && ch != 'B') {
        throw ch;
    }

    std::cout << "Enter double 1.1 - 1.5: ";
    std::cin >> dNum;
    if (dNum < 1.1 || dNum > 1.5) {
        throw dNum;
    }
} catch (int numIn) {
    std::cout << numIn << "is not in the specified range\n";
} catch (char charIn) {
    std::cout << charIn << "is not A or B\n";
} catch (...) {
    std::cout << "Invalid input!\n";
}
```

Unhandled Exceptions and Propagation
------------------------------------

An unhandled exception is *propagated* to the calling function, and this
propagation continues up to the `main` function if it goes unhandled. If no
matching handler is found through the entire propagation, the default handler
(`unexpected`) is called. This default handler simply terminates the program.
(*Note:* The default handler may be replaced by a user-defined handler, which
must be a `void` function that takes no parameters).

### Propagation Example

```cpp
int doInput() {
    int num;
    std::cout << "Enter a number from 1-100: ";
    std::cin >> num;
    if (num < 1 || num > 100) {
        throw num; 
    }
    return num;
}

int main() {
    int num;
    try {
        doInput() 
    } catch (int numIn) {
        std::cout << numIn << " is not in the range\n"; 
        system("pause");
        exit(1);
    }

    std::cout "Continuing on...\n";
    system("pause");
}
```

Download the [example program](src/exceptions.cpp) and run it to see out it
works. To build, try `g++ exceptions.cpp`.

Exercise
--------

Modify the program so that it has another exception named
`FailingInputException`. If the user inputs a grade less than 60, the program
should display a message that we don't allow failing grades and then continue
accepting grades. The totals should be revised so that only 4 totals are
displayed.

### Original code execution

```
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 100
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 50
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 67
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 92
Please input a grade or -1 to end: -1
End of input data reached
Limits Frequency
0 9 0
10 19 0
20 29 0
30 39 0
40 49 0
50 59 1
60 69 1
70 79 0
80 89 0
90 100 2
Press any key to continue . . .
```

### Revised code execution

```
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 100
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 50
We don't allow failing grades!
Continuing with grades
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 67
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 92
Please input a grade or -1 to end: -1
End of input data reached
Limits Frequency
60 69 1
70 79 0
80 89 0
90 100 2
Press any key to continue . . .
```

**Note:** This is *not* a good use of exceptions. The point is really to
contrast the mechanics of C++ and Java.

Hint
----

There are two `try`/`catch` blocks. Be sure to add your new exception to the
correct one.

Commit message:

added note in cpp exceptions exercise

class_exercises/ruby/3-exceptions/sections/2-cpp.md, after:

C++
===

Background
----------

Mechanisms for exception handling were added to C++ in 1990. Exceptions
themselves are user- or library- defined -- the language itself does not provide
any actual exceptions, just means of handling them.

Catching Exceptions
-------------------

C++ exceptions follow the form:

```cpp
try {
    // code that may raise an exception
} catch (/* exception parameter */) {
    // handler code
} catch (/* exception parameter */) {
    // handler code
}
// ...
```

`catch` is the name of all *handlers* in C++ -- it is an overloaded name, so the
*exception parameter* of each must be unique. You do not need to specify a
variable name to store the value of the parameter, you can simply specify the
type -- e.g. `catch(int)`, as opposed to `catch(int i)`. A parameter variable is
often useful, though, as it transfers information to the handling code. The
parameter may also simply be an ellipses: `catch(...)`, which is an exception
catch-all (compare to Java).

After a handler completes its execution, control flows to the first statement
after the `try`/`catch` block that handled the exception.

Throwing Exceptions
-------------------

Exceptions are explicitly raised by a `throw` statement:

```cpp
throw expression;
```

where `expression` may be any type (compare to Java).

A `throw` without an argument can only appear in a handler -- this simply
re-raises the exception, which should be handled elsewhere.

```cpp
try {
    // code that may raise an exception
} catch (string s) {
    // handler for string exceptions
} catch (...) {
    // throw all other exceptions
    throw;
}
```

Concrete Example
----------------

```cpp
int num;
char ch;
double dNum;

try {
    std::cout << "Enter int from 1 - 100: ";
    std::cin >> num;
    if (num < 1 || num > 100) {
        throw num;
    }

    std::cout << "Enter 'A' or 'B' : ";
    std::cin >> ch;
    if (ch != 'A' && ch != 'B') {
        throw ch;
    }

    std::cout << "Enter double 1.1 - 1.5: ";
    std::cin >> dNum;
    if (dNum < 1.1 || dNum > 1.5) {
        throw dNum;
    }
} catch (int numIn) {
    std::cout << numIn << "is not in the specified range\n";
} catch (char charIn) {
    std::cout << charIn << "is not A or B\n";
} catch (...) {
    std::cout << "Invalid input!\n";
}
```

Unhandled Exceptions and Propagation
------------------------------------

An unhandled exception is *propagated* to the calling function, and this
propagation continues up to the `main` function if it goes unhandled. If no
matching handler is found through the entire propagation, the default handler
(`unexpected`) is called. This default handler simply terminates the program.
(*Note:* The default handler may be replaced by a user-defined handler, which
must be a `void` function that takes no parameters).

### Propagation Example

```cpp
int doInput() {
    int num;
    std::cout << "Enter a number from 1-100: ";
    std::cin >> num;
    if (num < 1 || num > 100) {
        throw num; 
    }
    return num;
}

int main() {
    int num;
    try {
        doInput() 
    } catch (int numIn) {
        std::cout << numIn << " is not in the range\n"; 
        system("pause");
        exit(1);
    }

    std::cout "Continuing on...\n";
    system("pause");
}
```

Download the [example program](src/exceptions.cpp) and run it to see out it
works. To build, try `g++ exceptions.cpp`.

Exercise
--------

**Note: You can skip this exercise for now so that you have time to get through
all of the class exercise today, but *be sure to come back and complete this
later*.**

Modify the program so that it has another exception named
`FailingInputException`. If the user inputs a grade less than 60, the program
should display a message that we don't allow failing grades and then continue
accepting grades. The totals should be revised so that only 4 totals are
displayed.

### Original code execution

```
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 100
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 50
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 67
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 92
Please input a grade or -1 to end: -1
End of input data reached
Limits Frequency
0 9 0
10 19 0
20 29 0
30 39 0
40 49 0
50 59 1
60 69 1
70 79 0
80 89 0
90 100 2
Press any key to continue . . .
```

### Revised code execution

```
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 100
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 50
We don't allow failing grades!
Continuing with grades
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 67
Please input a grade or -1 to end: 92
Please input a grade or -1 to end: -1
End of input data reached
Limits Frequency
60 69 1
70 79 0
80 89 0
90 100 2
Press any key to continue . . .
```

**Note:** This is *not* a good use of exceptions. The point is really to
contrast the mechanics of C++ and Java.

### Hint

There are two `try`/`catch` blocks. Be sure to add your new exception to the
correct one.
